.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii bacwi.1
.\" Contact <skarg@users.sourceforge.net> to correct errors or ommissions
.TH bacwi 1 "May 2008" "0.4.5" "BACnet Stack at SourceForge Tool Manual"
.SH NAME
bacwi \- send BACnet WhoIs service request to BACnet devices
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B bacwi device-instance | device-instance-min device-instance-max

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bacwi uses the BACnet WhoIs service request to elicit
an I-Am service response from one or more BACnet devices
on the network.  I-Am responses include a Device Object-Identifier,
a Vendor-Identifier, a Max-APDU size, and segmentation information.
By its nature, I-Am responses include the source address and 
any network layer information necessary to communicate with the
device.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP device-instance
Device object instance number that you are trying to
send a Who-Is service request.  The value should be in
the range of 0 to 4194303.  A range of values can also be
specified by using a minimum value and a maximum value
option.

.IP "device-instance-min"
For specifying a range of Device object instance numbers,
this is the starting value.

.IP "device-instance-max"
For specifying a range of Device object instance numbers,
this is the ending value.

.SH FILES
.I address_cache
.RS
A cache that is read for static binding. See
.BR address_cache (5)
for further details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP BACNET_IP_PORT
If non-null, the number of the UDP port for BACnet/IP datalink.
The default UDP port number is 47808 (0xBAC0).
.IP BACNET_IFACE
If non-null, the device name for the datalink.
The default is "eth0".
.IP BACNET_BBMD_PORT
If non-null, the number of the UDP port that the BBMD is using.
The default UDP port number is 47808 (0xBAC0).
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_BBMD_TIMETOLIVE
If non-null, the number of seconds used in the Foreign Device
Registration.  A 16-bit unsigned value of 0 to 65535 is expected.
The default number of seconds is 65535 (0xFFFF).
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_BBMD_ADDRESS
If non-null, the IP address of the BBMD that is handling the
Foreign Device Registration.  If this environment variable is
missing or NULL, then Foreign Device Registration does not occur.
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MAX_INFO_FRAMES
If non-null, the Max-Info-Frames value between 1 and 255.
The default number of frames is 1.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MAX_MASTER
If non-null, the Max-Master value between 1 and 127.
The default Max-Master is 127.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MSTP_BAUD
If non-null, a value baud rate of 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600,
and 115200.  
The default baud rate is 9600.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MSTP_MAC
If non-null, the MS/TP MAC address value between 0 and 127.
The default MAC address is 0.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:

device-instance=x - it must be less than 4194304
object-type=x - it must be less than 1024
object-instance=x - it must be less than 4194304
property=%u - it must be less than 4194304
.SH BUGS
No bugs are known to exist at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Karg <skarg@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bacarf (1),
.BR bacawf (1),
.BR bacdcc (1),
.BR bacepics (1),
.BR bacrd (1),
.BR bacrp (1),
.BR bacserv (1),
.BR bacts (1),
.BR bacucov (1),
.BR bacwh (1),
.BR bacwp (1),
.BR address_cache (5)