.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii bacwp.1
.\" Contact <skarg@users.sourceforge.net> to correct errors or ommissions
.TH bacwp 1 "Sept 16 2011" "0.7.0" "BACnet Stack at SourceForge Tool Manual"
.SH NAME
bacwp \- send BACnet WriteProperty service request to a BACnet device
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B bacwp device-instance object-type object-instance property priority index tag value [tag value...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bacrp uses the BACnet WriteProperty service request to write
a property value to a BACnet device on the network.  WhoIs and 
I-Am are used for device binding. A simple Ack or error message
is returned to stdio.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP device-instance
Device object instance number that you are trying to
send a WriteProperty service request.  The value should be in
the range of 0 to 4194303.

.IP "object-type"
The object type is the integer value of the enumeration
BACNET_OBJECT_TYPE in bacenum.h.  It is the object
that you are writing.  For example if you were
writing Analog Output 2, the object-type would be 1.

.IP "object-instance"
This is the object instance number of the object that
you are writing.  For example, if you were writing
Analog Output 2, the object-instance would be 2.

.IP "property"
The property is an integer value of the enumeration
BACNET_PROPERTY_ID in bacenum.h.  It is the property
you are writing.  For example, if you were writing the
Present Value property, the property is 85.

.IP "priority"

This parameter is used for setting the priority of the
write. If Priority 0 is given, no priority is sent.  The BACnet 
standard states that the value is written at the lowest 
priority (16) if the object property supports priorities
when no priority is sent.

.IP "index"
This integer parameter is the index number of an array.
If the property is a BACnetARRAY and writable, individual 
elements can be written. If this parameter value is -1, 
it is omitted when writing to the property.

.IP "tag"
Tag is the integer value of the enumeration BACNET_APPLICATION_TAG 
in bacenum.h.  It is the data type of the value that you are
writing.  For example, if you were writing a REAL value, you would 
use a tag of 4.
Context tags are created using two tags in a row.  The context tag
is preceded by a C.  Ctag tag. C2 4 creates a context 2 tagged REAL.

.IP "value"
The value is an ASCII representation of some type of data that you
are writing.  It is encoded using the tag information provided.  For
example, if you were writing a REAL value of 100.0, you would use 
100.0 as the value.  If you were writing an Object-Identifier such
as Device object 1, you would use 8:1 as the value.  If you were
writing a Boolean, a value of 0 would indicate false, and a non-zero 
value would indicate true.  


.SH BACnet Tags
Here is a brief overview of BACnet property and tags:
Certain properties are expected to be written with certain 
application tags, so you probably need to know which ones to use
with each property of each object.  It is almost safe to say that
given a property and an object and a table, the tag could be looked
up automatically.  There may be a few exceptions to this, such as
the Any property type in the schedule object and the Present Value
accepting REAL, BOOLEAN, NULL, etc.  Perhaps it would be simpler for
the demo to use this kind of table - but I also wanted to be able
to do negative testing by passing the wrong tag and have the server
return a reject message.

.SH EXAMPLES
If you want send a value of 100 to the Present-Value in
Analog Output 0 of Device 123 at priority 16,
send the following command:
$ bacwp 123 1 0 85 16 -1 4 100
To send a relinquish command to the same object:
$ bacwp 123 1 0 85 16 -1 0 0

.SH FILES
.I address_cache
.RS
A cache that is read for static binding. See
.BR address_cache (5)
for further details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP BACNET_IP_PORT
If non-null, the number of the UDP port for BACnet/IP datalink.
The default UDP port number is 47808 (0xBAC0).
.IP BACNET_IFACE
If non-null, the device name for the datalink.
The default is "eth0".
.IP BACNET_BBMD_PORT
If non-null, the number of the UDP port that the BBMD is using.
The default UDP port number is 47808 (0xBAC0).
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_BBMD_TIMETOLIVE
If non-null, the number of seconds used in the Foreign Device
Registration.  A 16-bit unsigned value of 0 to 65535 is expected.
The default number of seconds is 65535 (0xFFFF).
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_BBMD_ADDRESS
If non-null, the IP address of the BBMD that is handling the
Foreign Device Registration.  If this environment variable is
missing or NULL, then Foreign Device Registration does not occur.
Used for BACnet/IP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MAX_INFO_FRAMES
If non-null, the Max-Info-Frames value between 1 and 255.
The default number of frames is 1.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MAX_MASTER
If non-null, the Max-Master value between 1 and 127.
The default Max-Master is 127.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MSTP_BAUD
If non-null, a value baud rate of 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600,
and 115200.  
The default baud rate is 9600.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.
.IP BACNET_MSTP_MAC
If non-null, the MS/TP MAC address value between 0 and 127.
The default MAC address is 0.
Used for BACnet MS/TP datalink only.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:

device-instance=x - it must be less than 4194304
object-type=x - it must be less than 1024
object-instance=x - it must be less than 4194304
property=x - it must be less than 4194304
Error: not enough tag-value pairs
Error: tag=x - it must be less than 15
Error: unable to parse the tag value
Error: Exceeded 64 tag-value pairs.
Error: TSM Timeout!
Error: APDU Timeout!

.SH BUGS
No bugs are known to exist at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Karg <skarg@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bacarf (1),
.BR bacawf (1),
.BR bacdcc (1),
.BR bacepics (1),
.BR bacrd (1),
.BR bacrp (1),
.BR bacserv (1),
.BR bacts (1),
.BR bacucov (1),
.BR bacwh (1),
.BR address_cache (5)
